Editor revision 2022 02 23 (#450)
oasis-tcs/csaf: csaf_2.0/prose/csaf-v2-editor-draft.md

# Common Security Advisory Framework Version 2.0

> ## Committee Specification Draft 02

Reviewer: I intended to create a PR from some ephemeral branch to the editor branch but my fingers chose differently.

Personally, I do not think that this is no problem as the change set is very small and clear in scope. So, I hope the TC members see it the same way ... 🙈

###### [CVE-NF]
_Common Vulnerability and Exposures (CVE) – The Standard for Information Security Vulnerability Names - CVE ID Syntax Change_, MITRE, January 01, 2014, https://cve.mitre.org/cve/identifiers/syntaxchange.html.
###### [CVRF-1-1]

> _The Common Vulnerability Reporting Framework (CVRF) Version 1.1_, M. Schiffman, Editor, May 2012, Internet Consortium for Advancement of Security on the Internet (ICASI), http://www.icasi.org/the-common-vulnerability-reporting-framework-cvrf-v1-1/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_The Common Vulnerability Reporting Framework (CVRF) Version 1.1_, M. Schiffman, Editor, May 2012, Internet Consortium for Advancement of Security on the Internet (ICASI), https://www.icasi.org/the-common-vulnerability-reporting-framework-cvrf-v1-1/.
```

The Common Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) is a language to exchange Security Advisories formulated in JSON.

The term Security Advisory as used in this document describes any notification of security issues in products of and by providers. Anyone providing a product is considered in this document as a vendor, i.e. developers or maintainers of information system products or services. This includes all authoritative product vendors, Product Security Incident Response Teams (PSIRTs), and product resellers and distributors, including authoritative vendor partners.

> A security issue is not necessarily constraint to a problem statement, the focus of the term is on the security aspect impacting (or not impacting) specific product-platform-version combinations. Information on presence or absence of workarounds is also considered part of the security issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A security issue is not necessarily constrained to a problem statement, the focus of the term is on the security aspect impacting (or not impacting) specific product-platform-version combinations. Information on presence or absence of workarounds is also considered to be a part of the security issue.
```

* Vulnerability Classification
  * Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) [CWE]
    * CWE List: http://cwe.mitre.org/data/index.html
* Classification for Document Distribution
  * Traffic Light Protocol (TLP)
    * Default Definition: https://www.first.org/tlp/

> Section 4 defined profiles which are used to ensure a common understanding which fields are required in a use case. Additional conventions are stated in section 5. The tests given in section 6 support CSAF producers and consumers to verify rules from the specification which can not be tested by the schema. Section 7 states how to distribute and where to find CSAF documents. Safety, Security and Data Protection are considered in section 8. Finally, a set of conformance targets describes tools in the ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Section 4 defined profiles that are used to ensure a common understanding of which fields are required in a given use case. Additional conventions are stated in section 5. The tests given in section 6 support CSAF producers and consumers to verify rules from the specification which can not be tested by the schema. Section 7 states how to distribute and where to find CSAF documents. Safety, Security, and Data Protection are considered in section 8. Finally, a set of conformance targets describes tools in the ecosystem.
```

Author: Resolved through #458

#### 3.1.3.3 Full Product Name Type - Product Identification Helper

Helper to identify the product (`product_identification_helper`) of value type `object` provides in its properties at least one method which aids in identifying the product in an asset database.

> Of the given eight properties `cpe`, `hashes`, `model_numbers`, `purl`, `sbom_urls`, `serial_numbers`, `skus` and `x_generic_uris`, one is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of the given eight properties `cpe`, `hashes`, `model_numbers`, `purl`, `sbom_urls`, `serial_numbers`, `skus`, and `x_generic_uris`, one is mandatory.
```

##### 3.2.1.12.4 Document Property - Tracking - ID

Unique identifier for the document (`id`) of value type `string` with 1 or more characters with `pattern` (regular expression):

```
    ^[\\S](.*[\\S])?$
```

Unique identifier for the document holds the Identifier.

> > It SHALL NOT start or end with a white space and SHALL NOT contain a line break.

Reviewer: Let us remove any space coloring :wink: ... end with space characters ...

Why anybody would want to use identifiers with spaces anywhere is a miracle to me.

Author: One of our examples does: `Example Company - 2019-YH3234`

I'm happy to change it if the TC wants to prohibit space characters in the `/document/tracking/id`.

> There is a spelling mistake in `Secruity`.

## 6.3.9 Branch Categories

For each element of type `/$defs/full_product_name_t` in `/product_tree/branches` it MUST be tested that ancestor nodes along the path exist which use the following branch categories `vendor` -> `product_name` -> `product_version` in that order starting with the Product tree node.

> > Other branch categories can be upfront, in between or after the aforementioned without making the test invalid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Other branch categories can be used before, after, or between the aforementioned branch categories without making the test invalid.
```

Author: Resolved through #458
